hey Grif Hamlin here from blues guitar
unleashed welcome to another sort of
countrified blues lesson my in my
previous video that I kind of did a in a
little bit of a country swing sang and I
realized that I forgot a couple of
things and one of the things that I
forgot was to talk a little bit about
the slap back delay so I'm gonna do that
and the other thing was I mentioned
towards the end of it that you know you
could use like a major pentatonic sound
or a major blues sound over this and
that it would sound really cool so I
thought well I better do a new new video
and show an example of that so what I
just played was in fact straight out of
the major pentatonic sound and I'm gonna
show you how I put that together real
quick let me explain what I mean by the
slap back delay I have I have it on
right now let me turn it off and you'll
hear a very dry sound I'm actually gonna
turn off the reverb as well I can't turn
off the reverb there's actually still a
little bit going but notice that it sort
of ends almost right away if I turn on
the slap back it actually echoes back to
me I have I have the delay set at a
hundred and sixteen milliseconds which
is almost instant it's almost instantly
comes right back I have it to repeat
only one time and I have the mix which
is the amount of delayed signal that
comes in with the original guitar signal
fairly low so if I
if I play without it it's a very subtle
thing if you don't hear it that's
alright particularly you know
compressing videos over the internet and
stuff the audio is not always crystal
clear but it's a nice little touch it's
something that I like to use when I play
country and you know it just gives it
that feel it's that old school you know
country thing so anyway I just thought
I'd add it in but let's talk about what
I was what I was playing my little love
my little backing track was actually
kind of came from the last lesson I did
like this and it's in G so I I went up
to a G here and and I wanted to play a
you know major pentatonic sound well
there's a there's a certain pattern that
I use a lot and from the root in this
case the root is my G at the eighth fret
of the second string I go up two frets
and then slide up two frets and I get
the first second and third notes of the
scale no I know I I'm not using a pick
I'm using my fingers and thumb just
because in the last video I did that so
I thought I'd do it here as well I like
the kind of pop that I get it's a cool
sound it's kind of Albert King you know
I kind of dig it so anyway I've got the
one two three and then when I end up
here I just go up to the next string the
first string and play the notes with my
first and third finger it's it's
literally going by where notes fall
under your fingers it couldn't you know
that's one of those things it couldn't
be easier and if I actually started you
know way down here at the low G when I
get done it starts again
and when they get done it starts again
okay so what I did there as I took the
the second of the cord and bent it up a
whole step so the tenth fret note on the
second string bend up so where it sounds
like the twelfth and then with my pinkie
I strike the 10th fret on the first
string I don't bend it though only the
second string is bent and then I strike
the other one that I'm gonna play I'm
gonna bend it up again and then I'm
gonna release it and strike it again and
go back to the my G now one of the
biggest elements of this lick that makes
it sound good is I'm kind of pushing the
beat I'm starting a little bit before
beat one so it's like one and two and
three and four and one and two and three
okay so there's that
right before beat one and that's what
makes licks like this work I often say
you know keep your lips off of beat one
this is just another example of that but
it gives it that cool sound two three
four and then I just go down to the e at
the ninth fret of the third string and
back
now what's cool is that for the next
chord I don't have to change anything I
just go down to the sea
the exact same lick for the D it's also
the exact same lick seize it the first
fret DS at the third okay if I needed it
in the EE is it the fifth if I needed an
AAS at the 10th I need it you can just
see up here and the D up here you know
just depends on how high and squeaky you
want to get but you can you know put it
anywhere wherever you find the root note
on the B string you're good to go
okay so it's pretty straightforward my
chord progression starts with G and then
goes down to C and then it goes to D and
then it comes back to G and then it does
that little turnaround I just don't play
anything there okay so I'm gonna play it
again with my little looper I heard me
playing it towards the beginning so I'm
gonna play it again with that let you
check it out
and there you have it so enjoy that I
hope you get a little bit of your
country on today and thanks for joining
me in this video and I will see you next
time